---
title: '2. Query data from Azure AI Search'
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Exercise 01: Deploy application resources'
---

# Task 02 - Query data from Azure AI Search (20 minutes)

## Introduction

The ChatGPT series of models available in Azure OpenAI has been trained on a wide variety of datasets online, but these datasets tend to be publicly available. For private and proprietary datasets, we will need a different approach than to expect ChatGPT has the available information. In this second task of the exercise, we will push data into an Azure storage account and convert it into an Azure AI Search index.

## Description

In this task, you will load data that Contoso Suites staff has provided to you into Azure Blob Storage. This data contains a summary, in JSON format, of several of their resort properties and hotels located on the resorts. This is an example of the type of data the company would like to use to enhance chat results, so they would like you to incorporate this data into the Azure OpenAI proof of concept. You may find these files in [the src/data folder](https://github.com/microsoft/TechExcel-Integrating-Azure-PaaS-and-AI-Services-for-AI-Design-Wins/tree/main/src/data) for the repository.

The key tasks are as follows:

1. Import the data from **Resorts.txt** into a container named `contoso-suites`.
2. Import the data from **Hotels.txt** into a container named `contoso-suites`.
3. Import the data from **FAQ.txt** into a container named `contoso-suites`.
4. Create a `contoso-suites-faq` index in Azure AI Search, built on the three files in the `contoso-suites` container in your storage account. You should embed with `text-embedding-002-ada` and support Hybrid (Vector + Keyword) search.
5. Update the front-end code to enable chat operations against the FAQ index.
   1. Create a file called `secrets.toml` in `src/ContosoSuitesDashboard/.streamlit/`. Pattern it after `secrets.template.toml` but include your Azure OpenAI and Azure AI Search details.
   2. The Contoso Suites team has followed instructions on how to interact with an Azure OpenAI model deployment. They would like you to extend the code in `src/ContosoSuitesDashboard/pages/1_Chat_with_Data.py` to ensure any queries make use of the Azure AI Search index you have created rather than relying on the inbuilt knowledge of the default GPT-4 model.

## Success Criteria

- You have created an Azure Blob Storage container and uploaded the Resorts and Hotels data files.
- You are able to view the files in Azure Blob Storage.
- You have executed code to generate a new Azure AI Search index.
- Your front-end application can handle chat against the `contoso-suites-faq` index.

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution for importing data into storage accounts.</summary>

- Make sure you use the storage account you created in exercise 1, as the storage account must be in the same region as Azure AI Search.
- Navigate to the storage account in [the Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
- Select the **Containers** option from the **Data storage** menu.
- Create a new container using the **+ Container** option. Name the container `contoso-suites`.
- Inside the "contoso-suites" container, select the **Upload** option and choose each text file.
- The files do not need to be in separate folders in the blob storage container.

</details>

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution for creating an Azure AI Search index programmatically.</summary>

TODO

</details>

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution for updating the front-end code.</summary>

TODO

</details>