---
title: '3. Deploy to Azure App Services'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Exercise 01: Deploy application resources'
---

# Task 03 - Deploy to Azure App Services (20 minutes)

## Introduction

Running the API and dashboard locally are a good proof of concept, but the Contoso Suites team makes heavy use of Azure Application Services and would like to ensure that what you build locally will integrate well into their workflow. The Contoso Suites team uses GitHub for source control and GitHub Actions workflows for code deployment, and would like to ensure that this solution will not be overly disruptive of their current CI/CD process.

## Description

In this task, you will deploy the Contoso Suites API and dashboard to Azure Application Services. The Contoso Suites development team has provided you with Dockerfiles to containerize each application, as well as GitHub Actions workflows you will be able to use in your own repository.

The key tasks are as follows:

1. Copy the two workflows in `/src/.github/workflows/` into `.github/workflows`, and remove the `jekyll-gh-pages.yml` workflow.
2. Modify the `api.yml` and `dashboard.yml` workflow files in `.github/workflows`. Replace `{your_registry_name}` with the name of your Azure container registry and `{your_prefix}` with the unique identifier used to create your Azure resources.
3. Create a new service principal named `TechExcelAzurePaaS` using the following command in the az CLI, being sure to replace `{YOUR SUBSCRIPTION ID}` and `{YOUR RESOURCE GROUP}` with the appropriate values:

    ```cmd
    az ad sp create-for-rbac --name "TechExcelAzurePaaS" --json-auth --role contributor --scopes /subscriptions/{YOUR SUBSCRIPTION ID}/resourceGroups/{YOUR RESOURCE GROUP}
    ```

4. Create the following GitHub Actions secrets:
   1. `STREAMLIT_SECRETS` -- Paste in the entirety of your `secrets.toml` file.
   2. `ACR_LOGIN_SERVER` -- Retrieve from your container registry's **Access keys** menu.
   3. `ACR_USERNAME` -- Retrieve from your container registry's **Access keys** menu.
   4. `ACR_PASSWORD` -- Retrieve from your container registry's **Access keys** menu.
   5. `AZURE_CREDENTIALS` -- Paste in the entirety of the JSON output from running `az ad sp create-for-rbac`.
5. Commit and push your repository changes.
6. Manually execute the GitHub Actions workflows named **API Deployment** and **Dashboard Deployment**.
7. TODO: any configuration for API?
8. Connect to your dashboard website and ensure that you can still perform chat with data operations. To test, you can use a question like, "Do I need to pay extra money to use an EV station when I am a guest of the hotel?"

## Success Criteria

- You have deployed your API and dashboard as Azure Application Services and are able to access the dashboard remotely.

## Learning Resources

- [Introduction to GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/learn-github-actions/introduction-to-github-actions)
- [.NET Core Action to build and test](https://github.com/actions/starter-workflows/blob/dacfd0a22a5a696b74a41f0b49c98ff41ef88427/ci/dotnet-core.yml)
- [GitHub Actions for Azure](https://github.com/Azure/actions)
- [Environment variables](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#env)
- [Introduction to GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/learn-github-actions/introduction-to-github-actions)
- [Authenticate with an Azure container registry](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/container-registry-authentication#admin-account)
- [GitHub Actions for Azure](https://github.com/Azure/actions)
- [Deploy a custom container to App Service using GitHub Actions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/deploy-container-github-action?tabs=service-principal#tabpanel_CeZOj-G++Q-3_service-principal)

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

TODO

</details>
