---
title: '3. Load-balancing calls to Azure OpenAI'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Exercise 06: Add GenAI Gateway Capabilities with Azure API Management'
---

# Task 03 - Load-balancing calls to Azure OpenAI (10 minutes)

TODO: Make this one optional... It will require having users provision a second Azure OpenAI instance, as that won't be added to the Bicep script. However, there could be a stand-alone Bicep script to just create a Azure OpenAI instance and configure it with deployments...

## Introduction

In the realm of generative AI (GenAI) applications, ensuring efficient and reliable access to AI models is paramount. The Azure API Management (APIM) GenAI gateway offers a powerful solution for load balancing application calls to Azure OpenAI, enabling apps to distribute requests evenly across multiple instances and maintain optimal performance.

## Description

In this task, you will leverage Azure API Management to balance the GenAI calls from the Contoso Suites Web API across two Azure OpenAI instances.

In the previous exercises, all calls to preform text embedding and chat completions were sent directly to the Azure OpenAI service's API endpoint. In this task, you will integrate the Azure OpenAI API managed by API Management into the Contoso Suites Web API, sending chat completion and embedding requests through APIM and enabling the GenAI Gateway capabilities and policies you enabled in the previous task to be applied.

The key tasks are as follows:

- Run the `DeployAzureOpenResource.bicep` file to create a second instance of Azure OpenAI. Pick another region? Keep in the same RG, though.
- Configure load balancing in APIM.
- Send requests through the API and copilot
- Look at logs or whatever to see the traffic being routed across AOAI instances.

## Success Criteria

- You have updated the Kernel builder in the `Program.cs` file to use the APIM endpoint and key for all text embedding and chat completion calls.
- You have successfully used the Maintenance Request Copilot to generate a maintenance request.
- You have inspected the logs to view the token consumption of interactions with the copilot.

## Learning Resources

- [Tutorial: Create and publish a product](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/api-management/api-management-howto-add-products?tabs=azure-portal)

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

- Run the API and test embeddings and completions through the streamlit app.
  - `dotnet run`
  - `python -m streamlit run Index.py`

</details>
